---
layout: post
title: "BLM and Humanity"
author: "The Affair Mag"
image: /images/sample-post-image.png
excerpt: "The implications of 2020 BLM protests."
---

Everyone is aware of the Black Lives Matter Protests occurring globally. The protests are the product of years of torment, abuse, and oppression faced by people of colour around the world. Black Lives Matter protests have focused on institutionalized and socially accepted forms of oppression of black people in society. Protests were not sparked by the outrage surrounding the single death of George Floyd, but the deaths of so many African Americans at the hands of police and other Americans. 

Though skeptics say that protesting or rioting has no real effect, this is not the case. Laws surrounding force used by police are rapidly changing as international attention and public outcry increases. It was through protests that Martin Luther King Jr. and other activists were given rights by the government. Protests were peaceful until police began to harm peaceful protesters. 

Several police officers have lost jobs over assaults and excessive force charges from the past. Mainstream media fails to cover the real brutalities and abuses of police during these protests. There is institutionalized racism that has yet to be fully acknowledged and charged by the police. The issue arises when police are meant to hold other police accountable from their wrongdoings. Police are less likely to get severely reprimanded by their own peers.This differs across locations: in Canada, the Special Investigations Unit is called whenever an officer has caused serious injury, death or there are allegations of sexual assault. Whereas, in the United States, the police are responsible for collecting citizen complaints and reviewing them.
Videos have surfaced regarding police framing protestors for looting and even running into citizens with cop cars. It is ironic to consider that in a protest against police brutality, some police officers are proving the point of the citizens. Allegations of undercover police officers inciting violence among protesters and attempting to smash windows have surfaced through videos on social media. Videos of police showing excessive violence have surfaced throughout social media during the protests, in which several people have ended up in hospitals. Looking back in history, police have also violently fought against the Civil Rights Movement and the Women’s Suffrage Movement. 

Though there have been violent encounters with police officers in certain areas, there have been many peaceful protests around America, where police have sided with citizens to show their solidarity and support for the movement. Most cities had peaceful protests in which citizens stood with police to remember and cause reform in the country surrounding police force usage and non-violent conflict resolving training. To the majority of officers that speak to resolve conflict before pulling out their guns, it is shameful to see the actions of their colleagues that have cost lives. Police should not feel threatened for their lives against unarmed citizens.

A new study conducted by Frank Edwards, of Rutgers University’s School of Criminal Justice; Hedwig Lee, of Washington University in St. Louis’s Department of Sociology; and Michael Esposito, of the University of Michigan’s Institute for Social Research found that roughly 1-in-1,000 black boys and men will be killed by police in their lifetime. For white boys and men, the rate is 39 out of 100,000. Therefore, African Americans are 2.5 times more likely to be killed by police than white people. Considering that white people make up 73% of the US population, these statistics are a real threat to Americans.

Throughout time, humanity has faced problems that still exist today. Today, there are still debates around abortion laws, equality laws, and anti-discrimination laws. Debates about outdated ideas that should have stayed in the 1970s. Recently, 6 American Americans were found hung across the United States, they have been ruled suicides, but most people are pointing fingers to lynching. Racism is still a prominent issue. Police brutality is still an issue in the United States. The oppression of black people has remained constant throughout history. Now, it is time to change that.
